PR: Update Contributing Guide to latest version w/env setup and much more (#319)
spyder-ide/spyder-docs: CONTRIBUTING.md

### Fork and clone the repo

First, navigate to the [project repository](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-docs) in your web browser and press the ``Fork`` button to make a personal copy of the repository on your own Github account.
Then, click the ``Clone or Download`` button on your repository, copy the link and run the following on the command line to clone the repo:

```shell
git clone <LINK-TO-YOUR-REPO>
```

Finally, set the upstream remote to the official Spyder-Docs repo with:

```shell
git remote add upstream https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-docs.git
```

### Create and activate a fresh environment

We highly recommend you create and activate a virtual environment to avoid any conflicts with other packages on your system or causing any other issues.
Of course, you're free to use any environment management tool of your choice (conda, virtualenvwrapper, pyenv, etc).

To do so with Conda (recommended), simply execute the following:

```shell
conda create -c conda-forge -n spyder-docs-env python=3.9
```

And activate it with

```shell
conda activate spyder-docs-env
```

> With pip/venv, you can create a virtual environment with

Reviewer: Maybe we need to state that this is an optional command if conda was not used

Author: Good point; based on your feedback I clearly separated this into two sections as two separate options to make it clear that only one is needed, which I *think* might be what you're trying to say below?

Reviewer: Yes! That's what I meant :)

Author: Great, thanks @steff456 ! Marking this as resolved so we can merge.

```shell
python -m venv spyder-docs-env
```

> And activate it with the following on Linux and macOS,

Reviewer: maybe it has sense to have creation + activation per environment management (?)

Author: I'm a little unsure of what you're trying to say here, but I *think* you might be saying we should have two separate sections, one per environment management tool? I implemented that, and I agree its a big improvement, thanks!

Author: Looks like this was resolved, as discussed above.

**Note**: You may need to substitute ``python3`` for ``python`` in the commands below on some Linux distros where ``python`` isn't mapped to ``python3`` (yet).

### Fork and clone the repo

First, navigate to the [project repository](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-docs) in your web browser and press the ``Fork`` button to make a personal copy of the repository on your own Github account.
Then, click the ``Clone or Download`` button on your repository, copy the link and run the following on the command line to clone the repo:

```shell
git clone <LINK-TO-YOUR-REPO>
```

Finally, set the upstream remote to the official Spyder-Docs repo with:

```shell
git remote add upstream https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-docs.git
```

### Create and activate a fresh environment

We highly recommend you create and activate a virtual environment to avoid any conflicts with other packages on your system or causing any other issues.
Of course, you're free to use any environment management tool of your choice (conda, virtualenvwrapper, pyenv, etc).
Regardless of the tool you use, make sure to remember to always activate your environment before using it.

#### Conda

> To do so with Conda (recommended), simply execute the following:

Author: Ah, good catch—this language was from before I split them up into separate sections and moved that line from below here to directly above.

```shell
conda create -c conda-forge -n spyder-docs-env python=3.9
```

> And activate it with

Author: ```suggestion
Then, activate it with
```

Phrasing tweak

```shell
conda activate spyder-docs-env
```

#### Pip/Venv

With pip/venv, you can create a virtual environment with

```shell
python -m venv spyder-docs-env
```

And activate it with the following on Linux and macOS,

```bash
source spyder-docs-env/bin/activate
```

or on Windows (``cmd.exe``),

```cmd
.\spyder-docs-env\Scripts\activate.bat
```

### Install dependencies

Then, you need to install the appropriate dependencies in your active Python environment to develop and build the documentation.
You can install them into your current Conda environment with:

```shell
conda install -c conda-forge --file requirements-conda.txt
python -m pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

Or, if using ``pip``, you can grab them with just:

```shell
python -m pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

### Install the required Pre-Commit hooks

This repository uses [Pre-Commit](https://pre-commit.com/) to install, configure and update a suite of pre-commit hooks that check for common problems and issues, and fix many of them automatically.

> You'll need to install the pre-commit hooks before committing any changes, as they both auto-generate/update specific files and run a comprehensive series of checks to help you find likely errors and enforce the project's code quality guidelines and style guide; they are also run in CI, and will fail the build if any don't pass or modify any files.

Author: Good point; I fixed the grammar (its run "on" a pull request, not "in" a pull request) and also rephrased the language following that to be more friendly, as well as splitting it into multiple sentences to avoid being too long and complicated.

```suggestion
You'll need to install the pre-commit hooks before committing any changes, as they both auto-generate/update specific files and run a comprehensive series of checks to help you find likely errors and enforce the project's code quality guidelines and style guide.
They are also run on all pull requests, and will need to pass before your changes can be merged.
```

> Pre-commit itself is installed with the above command, and the hooks should be enabled by running the following from the root of this repo:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pre-commit itself is installed with the [above command](#install-dependencies), and its hooks should be enabled by running the following from the root of this repo:
```

* To me it's not clear what command you're talking about here, but I think it's the one from the previous section, right?
* Second suggestion makes the sentence clearer to me.

Author: Great call to reference the specific command, I agree it sounds a bit clearer. Just one fix to my original language ("command" -> "commands") since there are multiple commands there (my mistake originally).

```suggestion
Pre-commit itself is installed with the [above commands](#install-dependencies), and its hooks should be enabled by running the following from the root of this repo:
```

```shell
pre-commit install --hook-type pre-commit --hook-type commit-msg
```

The hooks will be automatically run against any new/changed files every time you commit.
It may take a few minutes to install the needed packages the first time you commit, but subsequent runs should only take a few seconds.
If you made one or more commits before installing the hooks (not recommended), you can run them manually on all the files in the repo with:

```shell
pre-commit run --all-files
```

> **Note**: Many of the hooks fix the problems they detect automatically (the hook output will say ``Files were modified by this hook``, but no errors/warnings will be listed), but they will still abort the commit so you can double-check everything first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: Many of the hooks fix the problems they detect automatically (the hook output will say ``Files were modified by this hook``, and no errors/warnings will be listed), but they will still abort the commit so you can double-check everything first.
```

Avoid a double `but`, which is confusing.

Once you're satisfied, ``git add .`` and commit again.

## Building the docs

To build the docs locally with Sphinx, you can easily do so with our makefile from the Terminal/command line, or via running the appropriate Sphinx command.

> To build just the docs for the current version, run the following on a system with ``make`` (macOS/Linux):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To build just the docs for the current version, run the following on a system terminal with ``make`` (macOS/Linux):
```

Seems missing.

Author: Yup, great catch

```bash
make docs
make serve
```

To build the full site with the documentation for all Spyder versions, run:

```bash
make multidocs
```

On a system without ``make`` (like Windows, by default), or to build the docs manually, run:

```shell
python -m sphinx -n -W --keep-going -b html doc doc/_build/html
```

> If not opened automatically with ``make serve``, you should be able to view the HTML output inside the resulting ``_build/html`` directory the build commands produce; ``index.html`` is the main page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the documentation is not opened automatically after running ``make serve``, you can view the output with your web browser.
Specifically, you need to go to the ``_build/html`` directory and open ``index.html``, which is the main page of our docs.
```

This sentence is very confusing to me, although I understand what you mean by it. I tried to simplify it, but I don't know if you'll agree with my suggestion.

Author: I see what you mean and agree with your suggestion overall, and clarified further the language particularly around ``make serve`` (since the issue isn't that it will be run but won't work, but that it won't be run at all since users don't have ``make`` or just don't use it) and added some other clarifications.

```suggestion
If you've run ``make serve``, the rendered documentation should open automatically in your default web browser.
Otherwise, navigate to the ``_build/html`` directory inside the ``spyder-docs`` repository and open ``index.html`` (the main page of the docs) in your browser.
```

* The ``4.x`` branch contains the docs for Spyder 4 and is in bugfix-only mode; no substantial new content should be added here at this point.
* The ``3.x`` branch is frozen, containing the docs for the legacy Spyder 3 version; no further PRs will be accepted

Of course, if an issue is only present in a specific branch, please base your PR on that branch.
If you are at all unsure which branch to use, we'll be happy to guide you.

## Making Your Changes

To start working on a new PR, you need to execute these commands, filling in the branch names where appropriate (``<BASE-BRANCH>`` is the branch you're basing your work against, e.g. ``master``, while ``<FEATURE-BRANCH>`` is the branch you'll be creating to store your changes, e.g. ``fix-doc-typo`` or ``add-plugin-guide``:

```shell
git checkout <BASE-BRANCH>
git pull upstream <BASE-BRANCH>
git checkout -b <FEATURE-BRANCH>
```

Once you've made and tested your changes, commit them with a descriptive, unique message of 74 characters or less written in the imperative tense, with a capitalized first letter and no period at the end.

> Try to make your commit message understandable on its own, giving the reader a high-level idea of what your changes accomplished without having to dig into the diffs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Try to make your commit message understandable on its own, giving the reader a high-level idea of what your changes accomplished without having to dig into the diff of your commit.
```

To be more explicit.

Author: ```suggestion
Try to make your commit message understandable on its own, giving the reader a high-level idea of what your changes accomplished without having to dig into the full diff output.
```

Avoid repetition while improving clarity

For example:

```shell
git commit -am "Add new guide on developing plugins for Spyder"
```

If your changes are complex (more than a few dozen lines) and can be broken into discrete steps/parts, its often a good idea to make multiple commits as you work.

> On the other hand, if your changes are fairly small (less than a dozen lines), its usually better to make them as a single commit, and then use the ``git -a --amend`` (followed by ``git push -f``, if you've already pushed your work) if you spot a bug or a reviewer requests a change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the other hand, if your changes are fairly small (less than a dozen lines), its usually better to make them as a single commit, and then use the ``git -a --amend`` (followed by ``git push -f``, if you've already pushed your work) if you spot a bug or a reviewer requests a small change.
```

This section summarizes the important points for doc authors to actively keep in mind while writing the documentation.
See the [Style Guide](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-docs/blob/master/STYLEGUIDE.md) for a comprehensive reference on a wide variety of topics that may be pertinent to specific situations encountered when working on the docs.
If you're not sure about something, don't worry about it!

> Feel free to ask, or request a maintainer take care of the style nits for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Feel free to ask, or request a maintainer take care of the style details for you.
```

As a non-native speaker, `nits` sounds a bit odd to me.
